1	You are in a narrow east-west passageway.  There is a narrow staircase
leading down at the north end of the room.	East-West Passage
2	You are in an open field west of a big white house with a boarded
front door.	West of House
3	You are facing the north side of a white house.  There is no door here,
and all the windows are barred.	North of House
4	You are facing the south side of a white house.  There is no door here,
and all the windows are barred.	South of House
5		Behind House
6		Kitchen
7	You are in the attic.  The only exit is stairs that lead down.	Attic
8		Living Room
9		Cellar
10	You are in a small room with passages off in all directions.
Bloodstains and deep scratches (perhaps made by an axe) mar the walls.	Troll Room
11	You are in a maze of twisty little passages, all alike.	Maze
12	You are in a maze of twisty little passages, all alike.	Maze
13	You are in a maze of twisty little passages, all alike.	Maze
14	You are in a maze of twisty little passages, all alike.	Maze
15	Dead end.	Dead End
16	You are in a maze of twisty little passages, all alike.	Maze
17	Dead end.	Dead End
18	You are in a maze of twisty little passages, all alike.	Maze
19	You are in a maze of twisty little passages, all alike.	Maze
20	You are in a maze of twisty little passages, all alike.	Maze
21	Dead end.	Dead End
22	You are in a maze of twisty little passages, all alike.	Maze
23	You are in a maze of twisty little passages, all alike.	Maze
24	You are in a maze of twisty little passages, all alike.	Maze
25		Grating room
26	You are in a maze of twisty little passages, all alike.	Maze
27	Dead end.	Dead End
28	You are in a maze of twisty little passages, all alike.	Maze
29	You are in a maze of twisty little passages, all alike.	Maze
30	You are in a maze of twisty little passages, all alike.	Maze
31	You are in a forest, with trees in all directions around you.	Forest
32	You are in a dimly lit forest, with large trees all around.  To the
east, there appears to be sunlight.	Forest
33	You are in a dimly lit forest, with large trees all around.  One
particularly large tree with some low branches stands here.	Forest
34	You are in a large forest, with trees obstructing all views except
to the east, where a small clearing may be seen.	Forest
35	You are in a forest, with trees in all directions around you.	Forest
36		Clearing
37	You are in a deep ravine at a crossing with an east-west crawlway.
Some stone steps are at the south of the ravine and a steep staircase
descends.	Deep Ravine
38	You are in a crawlway with a three foot high ceiling.  Your footing
is very unsure here due to the assortment of rocks undefoot.  Passages
can be seen in the east, west, and northwest corners of the crawlway.	Rocky Crawl
39		Reservoir South
40		Reservoir
41		Reservoir North
42	You are standing on a path beside a gently flowing stream.  The path
travels to the north and the east.	Stream View
43	You are on the gently flowing stream.  The upstream route is too narrow
to navigate, and the downstream route is invisible due to twisting
walls.  There is a narrow beach to land on.	Stream
44	You are in a room which looks like an Egyptian tomb.  There is an
ascending staircase in the room as well as doors east and south.	Egyptian Room
45		Glacier Room
46	You are in a small chamber behind the remains of the great glacier.
To the south and west are small passageways.	Ruby Room
47	You are in an ancient room, long buried by the reservoir.  There are
exits to the southeast and upward.	Atlantis Room
48	You are on the south edge of a deep canyon.  Passages lead off
to the east, south, and northwest.  You can hear the sound of
flowing water below.	Deep Canyon
49	You are in a large room with a ceiling which cannot be detected from
the ground.  There is a narrow passage from east to west and a stone
stairway leading upward.  The room is extremely noisy.  In fact, it
is difficult to hear yourself think.	Loud Room
50		Mirror Room
51		Mirror Room
52	You are in a small cave with an entrance to the north and a stairway
leading down.	Cave
53	You are in a tiny cave with entrances west and north, and a dark,
forbidding staircase leading down.	Cave
54	You are in a steep and narrow crawlway.  There are two exits nearby to
the south and southwest.	Steep Crawlway
55	You are in a narrow crawlway.  The crawlway leads from north to south,
However, the south passage divides to the south and southwest.	Narrow Crawlway
56	You are in a cold and damp corridor where a long east-west passageway
intersects with a northward path.	Cold Passage
57	You are in a winding passage.  It seems that there is only an exit
on the east end, although the whirring from the round room can be
heard faintly to the north.	Winding Passage
58	You are in a small chamber, which appears to have been part of a
coal mine.  On the south wall of the chamber the letters "GRANITE
WALL" are etched in the rock.  To the east is a long passage, and
there is a steep metal slide twisting downward.  From the appearance
of the slide, an attempt to climb up it would be impossible.  To the
north is a small opening.	Slide Room
59	You are standing at the entrance of what might have been a coal
mine.  To the northeast and the northwest are entrances to the mine,
and there is another exit on the south end of the room.	Mine Entrance
60	You are in a small room.  Strange squeaky sounds may be hear coming
from the passage at the west end.  You may also escape to the south.	Squeaky Room
61	You are in a large room, in the middle of which is a small shaft
descending through the floor into darkness below.  To the west and
the north are exits from this room.  Constructed over the top of the
shaft is a metal framework to which a heavy iron chain is attached.	Shaft Room
62	You are in a narrow tunnel with large wooden beams running across
the ceiling and around the walls.  A path from the south splits into
paths running west and northeast.	Wooden Tunnel
63	You are in a small non-descript room.  However, from the direction
of a small descending staircase a foul odor can be detected.  To the
east is a narrow path.	Smelly Room
64	You are in a small room which smells strongly of coal gas.	Gas Room
65	You are in a very small room.  In the corner is a rickety wooden
ladder, leading downward.  It might be safe to descend.  There is
also a staircase leading upward.	Ladder Top
66	You are in a non-descript part of a coal mine.	Coal Mine
67	You are in a non-descript part of a coal mine.	Coal Mine
68	You are in a non-descript part of a coal mine.	Coal Mine
69	You are in a non-descript part of a coal mine.	Coal Mine
70	You are in a non-descript part of a coal mine.	Coal Mine
71	You are in a non-descript part of a coal mine.	Coal Mine
72	You are in a non-descript part of a coal mine.	Coal Mine
73	You are in a rather wide room.  On one side is the bottom of a
narrow wooden ladder.  To the northeast and the south are passages
leaving the room.	Ladder Bottom
74	Dead end.	Dead End
75	You are in a long and narrow passage, which is cluttered with broken
timbers.  A wide passage comes from the north and turns at the
southwest corner of the room into a very narrow passageway.	Timber Room
76	You are in a small square room which is at the bottom of a long
shaft.  To the east is a passageway and to the northeast a very narrow
passage.  In the shaft can be seen a heavy iron chain.	Lower Shaft
77		Machine Room
78		Bat Room
79		Dome Room
80		Torch Room
81	You are in a north-south crawlway;  a passage also goes to the east.
There is a hole above, but it provides no opportunities for climbing.	North-South Crawlway
82	You are on the west edge of a chasm, the bottom of which cannot be
seen.  The east side is sheer rock, providing no exits.  A narrow
passage goes west.  The path you are on continues to the north and south.	West of Chasm
83		Round Room
84	You are in a high north-south passage, which forks to the northeast.	North-South Passage
85	A chasm runs southwest to northeast.  You are on the south edge.  The
path exits to the south and to the east.	Chasm
86	You are in a cave.  Passages exit to the south and to the east, but
the cave narrows to a crack to the west.  The earth is particularly
damp here.	Damp Cave
87	A chasm, evidently produced by an ancient river, runs through the
cave here.  Passages lead off in all directions.	Ancient Chasm
88	Dead end.	Dead End
89	Dead end.	Dead End
90	You have entered a cave with passages leading north and southeast.	Engravings Cave
91	This is a room which is bare on all sides.  There is an exit down.
To the east is a great door made of stone.  Above the door, the
following words are written:  "No man shall enter this room without
solving this riddle--
	What is tall as a house,
	Round as a cup,
	And all the king's horses can't draw it up?".	Riddle Room
92	This is a former broom closet.  The exits are to the east and west.	Pearl Room
93		Entrance to Hades
94		Land of the Living Dead
95	You are standing in a small circular room with a pedestal.  A set of
stairs leads up, and passages leave the the east and west.	Grail Room
96	You are in the west end of a large temple.  On the south wall is an
ancient inscription, probably a prayer in a long-forgotten language.
The north wall is solid granite.  The entrance at the west end of the
room is through huge marble pillars.	Temple
97	You are in the east end of a large temple.  In front of you is what
appears to be an altar.	Altar
98		Dam
99	This room appears to have been the waiting room for groups touring
the dam.  There are exits here to the north and east marked
"PRIVATE", though the doors are open, and an exit to the south.	Dam Lobby
100	You are in what appears to have been the maintenance room for flood
control dam #3, judging by the assortment of tool chests around the
room.  Apparently, this room has been ransacked recently, for most of
the valuable equipment is gone.  On the wall in front of you is a
panel of buttons, which are labelled in EBCDIC.  However, they are of
different colors:  blue, yellow, brown, and red.  The doors to this
room are in the west and south ends.	Maintenance Room
101		Cyclops Room
102	You are in a long passage.  To the south is one entrance.  On the
east there is an old wooden door with a large hole in it (about
cyclops sized).	Strange Passage
103	This is a large room, whose north wall is solid granite.  A number
of discarded bags, which crumble at your touch, are scattered about
on the floor.  There is an exit down and what appears to be a newly
created passage to the east.	Treasure Room
104	You are in what appears to have been an artist's studio.  The walls
and floors are splattered with paints of 69 different colors.
Strangely enough, nothing of value is hanging here.  At the north and
northwest of the room are open doors (also covered with paint).  An
extremely dark and narrow chimney leads up from a fireplace.  Although
you might be able to get up the chimney, it seems unlikely that you
could get back down.	Studio
105	You are in an art gallery.  Most of the paintings which were here
have been stolen by vandals with exceptional taste.  The vandals
left through the north, south, or west exits.	Gallery
106	You are at the base of flood control dam #3, which looms above you
and to the north.   The Frigid River is flowing by here.  Across the
river are the white cliffs, which seem to form a giant wall stretching
from north to south along the east shore of the river as it winds its
way downstream.	Dam Base
107	You are on the Frigid River in the vicinity of the dam.  The river
flows quietly here.  There is a landing on the west shore.	Frigid River
108	The river turns a corner here making it impossible to see the
dam.  The white cliffs loom on the east bank, and large rocks
prevent landing on the west.	Frigid River
109	The river descends here into a valley.  There is a narrow beach on
the east below the cliffs, and there is some shore on the west which
may be suitable.  In the distance a faint rumbling can be heard.	Frigid River
110	You are on a narrow strip of beach which runs along the base of the
white cliffs.  The only path here is a narrow one, heading south
along the cliffs.	White Cliffs Beach
111	You are on a rocky, narrow strip of beach beside the cliffs.  A
narrow path leads north along the shore.	White Cliffs Beach
112	The river is running faster here, and the sound ahead appears to be
that of rushing water.  On the west shore is a sandy beach.  A small
area of beach can also be seen below the cliffs.	Frigid River
113	The sound of rushing water is nearly unbearable here.  On the west
shore is a large landing area.	Frigid River
114		Moby Lossage
115	You are on the shore of the river.  The river here seems somewhat
treacherous.  A path travels from north to south here, the south end
quickly turning around a sharp corner.	Shore
116	You are on a large sandy beach at the shore of the river, which is
flowing quickly by.  A path runs beside the river to the south here.	Sandy Beach
117	You are on the west shore of the river.  An entrance to a cave is
to the northwest.  The shore is very rocky here.	Rocky Shore
118	You are in a small cave whose exits are on the south and northwest.	Small Cave
119	You are in a barrel.  Congratulations.  Etched into the side of the
barrel is the word "GERONIMO!".	Barrel
120		Aragain Falls
121	You are on top of a rainbow (I bet you never thought you would walk
on a rainbow), with a magnificent view of the falls.  The rainbow
travels east-west here.	Rainbow room
122	You are on a small beach on the continuation of the Frigid River
past the falls.  The beach is narrow due to the presence of the white
cliffs.  The river canyon opens here, and sunlight shines in from
above.  A rainbow crosses over the falls to the west, and a narrow path
continues to the southeast.	End of rainbow
123	You are beneath the walls of the river canyon, which may be climbable
here.  There is a small stream here, which is the lesser part of the
runoff of Aragain Falls.  To the north is a narrow path.	Canyon Bottom
124	You are on a ledge about halfway up the wall of the river canyon.
You can see from here that the main flow from Aragain Falls twists
along a passage which it is impossible to enter.  Below you is the
canyon bottom.  Above you is more cliff, which still appears
climbable.	Rocky Ledge
125	You are at the top of the great canyon on its south wall. From here
there is a marvelous view of the canyon and parts of the Frigid River
upstream.  Across the canyon, the walls of the white cliffs still
appear to loom far above.  Following the canyon upstream (north and
northwest), Aragain Falls may be seen, complete with rainbow.
Fortunately, my vision is better than average, and I can discern the
top of flood control dam #3 far to the distant north.  To the
west and south can be seen an immense forest, stretching for miles
around.  It is possible to climb down into the canyon from here.	Canyon View
126	You are at the bottom of a large dormant volcano.  High above you
light may be seen entering from the cone of the volcano.  The only
exit here is to the north.	Volcano Bottom
127	You are about one hundred feet above the bottom of the volcano.  The
top of the volcano is clearly visible here.	Volcano Core
128	You are about two hundred feet above the volcano floor.  Looming
above is the rim of the volcano.  There is a small ledge on the
west side.	Volcano near small ledge
129	You are high above the floor of the volcano.  From here the rim of
the volcano looks very narrow, and you are quite near it.  To the
east is what appears to be a viewing ledge, too thin to land on.	Volcano near viewing ledge
130	You are near the rim of the volcano, which is only about fifteen feet
across.  To the west, there is a place to land with a wide ledge.	Volcano near wide ledge
131	You are on a narrow ledge overlooking the inside of an old dormant
volcano.  This ledge appears to be about in the middle between the
floor below and the rim above.  There is an exit here to the south.	Narrow Ledge
132	You are on a ledge in the middle of a large volcano.  Below you
the volcano bottom can be seen and above is the rim of the volcano.
A couple of ledges can be seen on the other side of the volcano;
it appears that this ledge is intermediate in elevation between
those on the other side.  The exit from this room is to the east.	Volcano View
133		Wide ledge
134	You are in a room which must have been a large library, probably
for the royal family.  All of the shelves appear to have been gnawed
to pieces by unfriendly gnomes.  To the north is an exit.	Library
135		Dusty Room
136	You are in a small room, whose walls are formed by an old lava flow.
There are exits here to the west and the south.	Lava Room
137		Tomb of the Unknown Implementer
138		Low Room
139	You are in a large room full of assorted heavy machinery.  The room
smells of burned resistors.  The room is noisy from the whirring
sounds of the machines.  Along one wall of the room are three buttons
which are, respectively, round, triangular, and square.  Naturally,
above the buttons are instructions written in EBCDIC.  A large sign
above all the buttons says in English:

		    DANGER:  HIGH VOLTAGE

There are exits to the west and the south.	Machine Room
140	You are in a dingy closet adjacent to the machine room.  On one wall
is a small sticker which reads:

		Protected by
		  FROBOZZ
	     Magic Alarm Company
	      (Hello, footpad!).	Dingy Closet
141	You are trapped inside an steel cage.	Cage
142	You are at the top of the well.  Well done.  There are etchings on
the side of the well.  There is a small crack across the floor at the
entrance to a room on the east, but it can be crossed easily.	Top of Well
143	You are in a damp circular room, whose walls are made of brick and
mortar.  The roof of this room is not visible, but there appear to be
some etchings on the walls.  There is a passageway to the west.	Bottom of Well
144	You are in a small square room, in the center of which is a large
oblong table, no doubt set for afternoon tea.  It is clear from the
objects on the table that the users were indeed mad.  In the eastern
corner of this room is a small hole no more than four inches high.
There are passageways leading away to the west and the northwest.	Tea Room
145	You are in an enormous room, in the center of which are four wooden
posts delineating a rectangular area, above which is what appears to
be a wooden roof.  In fact, all objects in this room appear to be
abnormally large.  To the east is a passageway.  There is a large
chasm on the west and the northwest.	Posts Room
146	You are in a large room, one half of which is depressed.  There is a
large leak in the ceiling through which brown colored goop is
falling.  The only exit from this room is to the west.	Pool Room
147		Up a Tree
148	You are in the large entrance hall of the Bank of Zork, the largest
banking institution of the Great Underground Empire.  A partial
account of its history is in "The Lives of the Twelve Flatheads" with
the chapter on J. Pierpont Flathead.  A more detailed history (albeit
less objective) may be found in Flathead's outrageous autobiography
"I'm Rich and You Aren't - So There!".
Most of the furniture has been ravaged by passing scavengers.  All
that remains are two signs at the northwest and northeast corners of
the room, which say

	<-- WEST VIEWING ROOM		EAST VIEWING ROOM -->	Bank Entrance
149	You are in a small square room, which was used by a bank officer
whose job it was to retrieve safety deposit boxes for the customer.
On the north side of the room is a sign which reads "Viewing Room".
On the west side of the room, above an open door, is a sign reading

		    BANK PERSONNEL ONLY	West Teller's Room
150	You are in a small square room, which was used by a bank officer
whose job it was to retrieve safety deposit boxes for the customer.
On the north side of the room is a sign which reads "Viewing Room".
On the east side of the room, above an open door, is a sign reading

		    BANK PERSONNEL ONLY	East Teller's Room
151	You are in a room used by holders of safety deposit boxes to view
their contents.  On the north side of the room is a sign which says

   REMAIN HERE WHILE THE BANK OFFICER RETRIEVES YOUR DEPOSIT BOX
    WHEN YOU ARE FINISHED, LEAVE THE BOX, AND EXIT TO THE SOUTH
     AN ADVANCED PROTECTIVE DEVICE PREVENTS ALL CUSTOMERS FROM
      REMOVING ANY SAFETY DEPOSIT BOX FROM THIS VIEWING AREA!
               Thank you for banking at the Zork!	Viewing Room
152	You are in a room used by holders of safety deposit boxes to view
their contents.  On the north side of the room is a sign which says

   REMAIN HERE WHILE THE BANK OFFICER RETRIEVES YOUR DEPOSIT BOX
    WHEN YOU ARE FINISHED, LEAVE THE BOX, AND EXIT TO THE SOUTH
     AN ADVANCED PROTECTIVE DEVICE PREVENTS ALL CUSTOMERS FROM
      REMOVING ANY SAFETY DEPOSIT BOX FROM THIS VIEWING AREA!
               Thank you for banking at the Zork!	Viewing Room
153	You are in a small bare room with no distinguishing features.  There
are no exits from this room.	Small Room
154	You are in the Vault of the Bank of Zork, in which there are no doors.	Vault
155	You are in a large rectangular room.  The east and west walls here
were used for storing safety deposit boxes.  As might be expected,
all have been carefully removed by evil persons.  To the east, west,
and south of the room are large doorways.  The northern "wall"
of the room is a shimmering curtain of light.  In the center of the
room is a large stone cube, about 10 feet on a side.  Engraved on
the side of the cube is some lettering.	Safety Depository
156	This room was the office of the Chairman of the Bank of Zork.
Like the other rooms here, it has been extensively vandalized.
The lone exit is to the north.	Chairman's Office
157		Crypt
158	You are standing at the top of a flight of stairs that lead down to
a passage below.  Dim light, as from torches, can be seen in the
passage.  Behind you the stairs lead into untouched rock.	Top of Stairs
159	You are standing near one end of a long dimly lit hall.  To the
south, stone stairs ascend.  To the north, the corridor is illum-
inated by torches set high in the wall, out of reach.  On one wall
is a red button.	Stone Room
160		Small Room
161		Hallway
162		Hallway
163		Hallway
164		Hallway
165		Hallway
166		Dungeon Entrance
167		Narrow Room
168		Narrow Room
169		Narrow Room
170		Narrow Room
171		Narrow Room
172		Narrow Room
173		Narrow Room
174		Narrow Room
175		Narrow Room
176		Narrow Room
177		Inside Mirror
178		Narrow Corridor
179		South Corridor
180	You are in a corridor with polished marble walls.  The corridor
widens into larger areas as it turns east at its northern and
southern ends.	West Corridor
181	You are in a corridor with polished marble walls.  The corridor
widens into larger areas as it turns west at its northern and
southern ends.	East Corridor
182		North Corridor
183		Parapet
184		Prison Cell
185		Prison Cell
186		Prison Cell
187	You are in a room of large size, richly appointed and decorated
in a style that bespeaks exquisite taste.  To judge from its
contents, it is the ultimate storehouse of the treasures of Zork.
   There are chests here containing precious jewels, mountains of
zorkmids, rare paintings, ancient statuary, and beguiling curios.
   In one corner of the room is a bookcase boasting such volumes
as "The History of the Great Underground Empire", "The Lives of
the Twelve Flatheads", "The Wisdom of the Implementers", and
other informative and inspiring works.
   On one wall is a completely annotated map of the Dungeon of
Zork, showing points of interest and various troves of treasure,
and indicating the locations of several superior scenic views.
   On the desk at the far end of the room may be found stock
certificates representing a controlling interest in FrobozzCo
International, the multinational conglomerate and parent company
of the Frobozz Magic Boat Co., etc.	Nirvana
188	You are in a small square room, in the middle of which is a recently
created hole through which you can barely discern the floor some ten
feet below.  It doesn't seem likely you could climb back up.  An 
extremely dark and narrow chimney leads up from a fireplace.  Although
you might be able to get up the chimney, it seems unlikely that you
could get back down. There are exits to the west and south.	Small Square Room
189		Side Room
190		Room in a Puzzle
191	You are at the North Pole. There is a blizzard blowing making it hard to 
hear or see. In the distance you detect the busy sounds of Santa's elves 
in full production. To the north you discern the outline of a door with a 
warm glow omitting from under the door.	North Pole
192	You have mysteriously reached the North Pole. 
In the distance you detect the busy sounds of Santa's elves in full 
production. 

You are in a warm room, lit by both the fireplace but also the glow of 
centuries old trophies.
On the wall is a sign: 
		Songs of the seasons are in many parts 
		To solve a puzzle is in our hearts
		Ask not what what the answer be,
		Without a trinket to satisfy me.	Elf Room
